# Layout Elements

In html documents, you structure you pages using common layout elements introduced in html 5.

As in a regular document, an html page can have sections of different types:

- header - The header is typically used as a container for content that will appear at the top of your web page (e.g. a logo).
- main - The main section is the body of the page,
- section - Much like a section (chapter, etc.) in a document.
- article - A mini-document.
- footer - The footer is typically used as a container for content that will appear at the bottom of your web page (e.g. a copyright notice)

An easy way to think of this is that the header, main and footer are containers for other content that make up the page.
Within any of these containers you can break things up further with sections and articles.

So why would you want to do this?
As we saw in the first couple of lessions, you can just use headings and paragraphs to present your content.
The reason to use these elemets is that by grouping your content within containers it's possible to apply characteristics (attributes) to just the contents of one container.
For example you could force the header to always appear at the top of the screen no matter how the page is scrolled.
Or, you could make an article appear in a different font.
We'll be showning you how to do these things in later lessons.

By using semantic markup, you can describe the html document so that browsers and humans can understand  your intention.

> In this example, you can see how we have used the header, main, section, article, and footer to define a well structured page, you can ignore the other tags for now, we will address those in the future.

<a class="jsbin-embed" href="https://jsbin.com/qaviqu/1/embed?html,output">Demo</a>

## Exercise

In this exercise, use the section and article elements nested in the main element. Here is a lorem ipsum document to insert as your article:

> Curabitur non lacus quis neque feugiat auctor. Fusce pharetra elit nunc, ac auctor nisl faucibus faucibus. Vivamus fringilla ante at odio hendrerit aliquet. C sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Suspendisse nec tincidunt erat, et porta urna. Donec ut nulla rhoncus, interdum massa vitae, faucibus mi.

<a class="jsbin-embed" href="https://jsbin.com/pecubu/2/embed?html,output">JS Bin on jsbin.com</a>

Click the `test` button in the top right corner to verify you created the `section` and `article` elements.

[Back](.)
