# Creating the form

## Using CODEPEN for JavaScript ##

We will be creating quite a bit of JavaScript. In CODEPEN we'll want to type all the JavasScript into the `JS` window.

## Create the add shape function ##

In the `js` window we will need a function that will be called whwn we want to add a shape.
We'll call this function AddShapes and it will be empty right now:

```
function AddShape(event) {
}
```

## Start the form ##

We will create a form giving it an id so we can reference it in our JavaScript and specifying that
our `AddShapes` function get called when the *Add Shape* button is pressed.

```
<form id="theForm" onsubmit="AddShape(event)">

    <input type="submit" value="Add the Shape">
</form>
```

## Get the type of shape ##

The first question we will ask when we start to get information about a new shape is it's type.

Create a dropdown list with the values `circle`, `square` and `rectangle`. Give the list an id of `shape` so we can find it using JavaScript. We will want to have the list initially show a blank choice so we'll add another option as the first choice:

```
<option selected disabled>Choose your shape</option>
```

Specifying that the option is `selected` makes it the choice that is initially displayed. Specifying `disabled` imples that it isn't really a valid selection.

## Get the radius of a circle shape ##

If the use wants to draw a circle, we next want an input field to get the radius of the circle. We will want to limit the radius to between 10 and 50 so the circles won't be too small or too big. For right now we'll just tell the user that in the line before the input field. In a later step we'll make sure the value is between 10 and 50 in our JavaScript.

Also, we will only want to ask this question if the user is going to create a circle. To make this work we will create a division around the question using the `div` tag. We will want an id on this division so we can make it appear or disappear using JavaScript. Initially we will have the question hidden.

```
<div id="circleParms" hidden>
Radius of the circle (10-50):
<input type="text" name="radius">
</div>
```

> It's important that the division and input are placed within the form!

## Get the length of a side of a square shape ##

We will do the same sort of thing for the length of the side of a square. Create a division with an id of `squareParms` and ask for the length of a side of the square. The question should be hidden as well. The input fields should have a name of `sqSideLen`.

## Get the length of the sides of a rectangle shape ##

For the rectangle we will ask two questions; the height and width of the rectangle. Like the circle and the square we will enclose the questions in a hidden division, this time with an id of `rectangleParms`.

We will name the two questions `rectWidth` and `rectHeight`.

You can add a line break `<br>` between the two questions if you want so it looks a little nicer.

## Get the color of the shape ##

We will create another dropdown list for the colors. Pick a few colors from the list you can find [here](http://www.javascripter.net/faq/colornam.htm). Make sure the options values are the names from the list. Make sure you provide an `id` for the dropdown so you can get the value in your JavaScript later.

> If you want a prompt for the question you can put the `select` dropdown inside a paragraph. Then if you put your prompt after the start of the paragraph but before the `select` the prompt will appear on the line before the dropdown box.

## Ask which way the shape should move ##

And finally add one last dropdown list, with the choices for movement direction. The options should have values of `u`, `d`, `l`, `r` for Up, Down, Left and Right.

---

[Back](.) | [Next](2)
