# Create the Shapes #

We now have a form that will collect all the information we need to draw the shapes. Not it's time to actuall draw the shapes.

## Add the Javascript Library ##

To draw the shapes we will use a JavaScript library, [`two.js`](https://two.js.org/).

We will do this by adding the JavaScript library that will draw the shapes. In CODEPEN this is done by clicking on the gear icon next to the word HTML. This opens the *Pen Settings* box. Under the "Stuff for <head>" section add the following:

```
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/two.js/0.6.0/two.js"></script>
```

## Make a Place for the Shapes on the Page ##

We need to create a somewhere on the page that can become the area for the shapes. To do this we will add a division (the `div` tag) with an id of `theShapes`. It won't have any contents right now. You can place this division either before or after the form, whichever looks best to you.

### Create an *Instance* of the two.js Library ###

The remainder of this step will be in the JavaScript (JS) window.

First, we'll be needing the size of the area where the shapes will be drawn, let's create constants for the width and height of the area:

```
const spaceWidth = 400;
const spaceHeight = 400;
```

When we create an instance of a library, we get a variable that we can use to do things with the library.
For `two.js`, when we create an instance, we need to give it a size and we can connect it to the place on the screen we created in the last step:

```
var elem = document.getElementById('theShapes');
var two = new Two({ width: spaceWidth, height: spaceHeight }).appendTo(elem);
```

## Put a Border around the Space ##

Let's put a border around the area for the shapes. This will also give us a little practice creating shapes:

```
two.makeRectangle(spaceWidth/2, spaceHeight/2, spaceWidth, spaceHeight);
```

The makeRectangle function takes 4 parameters that give the location and size of the rectangle. The first two parameters provide the `x` and `y` position of the center of the rectangle and the last two parameters provide the width and height of the rectangle.

## Show the rectangle ##

To actually see the rectangle, we need to tell `two.js` to display itself:

```
two.update();
```

## We'll need some Random Numbers ##

We'll want to place the shapes randomly on the screen within our rectangle, to do this we will need a function that will giv us random locations. We've seen this before:

```
function randomLocation(max) {
    return Math.floor(Math.random() * (max + 1));
}
```

## Add the shapes ##

We'll now work on the `AddShape` function we created back when we started this project.

The first thing we need to do in the function is to prevent HTML's normal handling of the page (normally it would send a command to a web server). To do this we use the following statement:

```
event.preventDefault();
```

We'll then get a variable that points to our form to make things a bit easier:

```
var form = event.target;
```

and then get `x` and`y` locations for the new shape:

```
var x = randomLocation(spaceWidth);
var y = randomLocation(spaceHeight);
```

Now comes the cool part, we'll create different shapes depending on the type in the dropdown list.
To do this we'll compare the value of the field with the id of `shape` to the values we put in the list:

```
if (form.elements['shape'].value == 'circle') {
    var newShape = two.makeCircle(x,
                                  y,
                                  form.elements['radius'].value);
}
```

We can do the same for the square and the rectangle by adding `else if` statements for those shapes.

To make a rectangle we will call the makeRectangle function with the width and heigth from the form:

```
   var newShape = two.makeRectangle(x,
                                    y,
                                    form.elements['rectWidth'].value,
                                    form.elements['rectHeight'].value);
```

To make a square we'll use the makerectangle function again by pass the value of the `sqSideLen` field to the function twice.

## Color the new shape ##

To color the shape, we'll use the fill function on the new shape:

```
newShape.fill = form.elements['color'].value;
```

## Update the Windows and Reset the form ##

Before we try to add a new shape we should reset the form to it's original state. We need to do three things:

1. Hide the circle, square and rectangle values again. (Hint, use the .hidden attribute)
2. Tell the form to reset itself. We do this using the reset function associated with the form:
   ```
   form.reset()
   ```
3. Tell `two.js` to update the drawing area:
   ```
   two.update()
   ```

> Hint, you might notice that the statements to hide the circle, square and rectangle parameters are repeated both here and in the SelectShape function. It might be a good idea to *refactor* these statements into a function.

---

[Back](.) | [Prev](2)  | [Next](4)
