# Make Sure the Shapes are the Right Size #

We want our user to just be able to enter a number between 10 and 50. If they enter anything else like a word or a number that's too big or small, we want to give them an error message and ignore the input.

## Create the validate function ##

To do this we will create a function of our own to check the values. This function will take two parameters:

1. The value to check
2. The name of the value (e.g. radius) to display in the error message if the value is incorrect.

The function will check the value we input. 

If the value is a number between 10 and 50 it will return the number.

If it's not a number between 10 and 50, it will open an error box and shown a message telling the user which field is bad. Also, it will return a special value `NaN` (Not a number) so we can avoid creating a bad shape.

Here's the skeleton of the validate function:

```
function validate (val, field_name) {
}
```

First, we need to turn the value into a number. This is done using the `parseInt` function:

```
val = parseInt(val);
```

If the value wan't a number `parseInt` will return `NaN`. 

So, write an `if` statement that will test whether `val` is `NaN` or less than 10 or greater than 50. Inside the `if` statement should should do an alert giving a message showing the `field_name`. You can use a template literal like you used in the madlibs project to do this. You should also return the value `NaN' inside the `if` statement.

If the `if` statement isn't executed (our value is good), return the value.


## Use the validate function to check the input for the circle shape ##

In our AddShape function, we will use the function we just created to check the inputs. For example, 

```
var radius = validate(form.elements['radius'].value, "circle's radius");
```

In this statement we have called our validate function with the value of the radius element and told the function to use the string `circle's radius` in the error message if the value is bad.

Next, we will check the value returned from the validate function and just return doing nothing if the value returned was `NaN`.

```
if (isNaN(val)) {
	return;
}
```

Only if we get past this `if` statement will we actually create the circle. 

## Check the input for the square shape ##

Can you use the validate function to check the length of the side of the square before creating the square?

## Check the input for the rectangle ##

For the rectangle, you will need to check two parameters, the width and height. Go ahead and write the code to check the width and height.

---

[Back](.) | [Prev](3)  | [Next](5)
