# Add Motion to the Shapes #

In this step we will add the code to make the shapes move around the screen.

## Keep track of the shapes ##

To make this work we will need to make a list of all our shapes as we create them along with which direction they should move.

We will first create a variable to save all our shapes. This will need to happen outside of any of the functions.

```
var myShapes = [];
```

Now, whenever we create a new shape will will save the shape and the direction we want it to move. To do this we will append (using the `push` function) both the shape and the direction to our list.

We will keep the shape and it's direction using something called an associative array. In an associative array, the elements of the array are named:

```
var assocArray = { field1 : value1,
                   field2 : value2 }
```

You can then refer to the values using the names, for example:

```
alert(assocArray.field1)
```

So we can add the shapes to our list by:

```
var shapeInfo = {shape : newShape,
                 direction : form.elements['direction'].value};

myShapes.push(shapeInfo);
```

## Move the shapes around ##

To moved the shapes around we will need to have the two library call a function over and over again to move the shapes. We will write the function.

```
two.bind("update", moveShapes).play()
```

This statement will need to appear right after the first `two.update()` we already had in our program.

## Create the `moveShapes` function ##

The `moveShapes` function is called automatically by `two.js` several times a second. Each time the function is called we want to move each of our shapes just a little bit (one pixel) in whatever direction we asked them to go.

We will do this using something called the `map` function. The `map` function is associated with a list. It calls a function we specify for every item in the list.

For example, to call function `move_a_shape` for every shape in our list we would do the following:

```
myShapes.map(move_a_shape);
```

This is all that will be needed in the `moveShapes` function.
Go ahead and create the moveShapes function and add the map function call.

## Create the `move_a_shape` function ##

The function called by the `map` function gets one parameter, the list item to work on.

```
function move_a_shape(item) {

}
```

In our case each of the items will one of the associative arrays we create when we added our new shapes to the list. We can access the parts of the associative array using:

```
item.shape
```
and
```
item.direction
```

#### Move a shape ####

To actually move a shape, we will change the *x* or *y* coordinates of the shape. We do this my adding or subtracting from the `translation.x` or `translation.y` properties of the shape.

If, for a particular shape, the user wanted the shape to move upwards, we would do the following:

```
if (item.direction == 'u') {
   item.shape.translation.y -= 1;
}
```

This works because, for the *y* dimension, the values get smaller as we go up and bigger as we go down.

Add additional, stacked, `else if` statements to move the shapes down, left and right.

#### Make sure we don't run off the sides of the box ####

If our shape goes too far in any direction, it will run off the side of the drawing area.
In this case we will want our shape to come back around to the other side (top, bottom, right or left) and start moving again.

We will do this by testing to see if the *x* or *y* coordinate of the shape has moved too far.
If it has we will reset the coordinate to the other edge of the area.
For example, to test if the shape as moved off the right edge of the drawing area and have it start over at the left edge we would:

```
if (item.shape.translation.x > spaceWidth) {
	item.shape.translation.x = 1
}
```

Add additional, stacked `else if` statements to test if the shape has moved off any of the other edges.

---

[Back](.) | [Prev](4)  | [Next](6)
