# Variables for the State of the Game

Now, we need to setup some variables that will contain data saved during each paint cycle.
Since we have a canvas size of 400 x 400, we want to make a grid 40 x 40.
Therefore, we want the size of each cube in the grid to be 10.
We will make the snake an array type and the food location an object type.
We will also setup a variable for the snake's direction and default it to 'right'.
Finally, we'll make a variable to hold the score for the game.

The snake array will will contain a list of objects that specify the the X and Y coordinate of that section of the snake.
And the food object is an X and Y coordinate of the location of the food.

```
// Size of a section of the snake
var size = 10;

// This array holds the sections of the snake
var snake = Array();
// This variable holds the location of the snake's food
var food = {};

// What direction are we moving
var direction = 'right';

// Our score for the game
var score = 0
```

---

The game works by having a function called repeatedly (every 60 milliseconds).
To do this we need two functions.

* paint function
* init function

---

We will call the `init` function when the page loads.
It will be responsible for setting up the state and making the first call to paint.

```
// Initialize the page
init()

// This function initializes the page calling the paint function for the first time
function init () {
  paint()
}
```
---

The `paint` function is where with real work of the game will occur.
It will move the snake and display both the snake and the food on the canvas.
Finally, it will tell the web browser to call itself again in another 60 milliseconds using the `setTimeout` function.

```
// This function is where the work really occurs
function paint () {

  // paint board
  ctx.fillStyle = 'white'
  ctx.fillRect(0, 0, w, h)
  ctx.strokeStyle = 'black'
  ctx.strokeRect(0, 0, w, h)

  // Call me again in 60 milliseconds
  setTimeout(paint, 60)

}
```

---

> A CODEPEN with this step is available [here](http://codepen.io/rcrosby/pen/Mbgxxx).

> A CODEPEN template with sections to fill in for this step is available [here](http://codepen.io/rcrosby/pen/ObLGrd).

---

[Back](.) | [Prev](1) | [Next](3)
